Module (CSS and CSS 3) -2

• What are the benefits of using CSS?
Ans. The following are the advantages of CSS −

CSS saves time − You can write CSS once and then reuse the same sheet in multiple HTML pages. You can define a style for each HTML element and apply it to as many Web pages as you want.

Easy maintenance − To make a global change, simply change the style, and all elements in all the web pages will be updated automatically.

Global web standards − Now HTML attributes are being deprecated and it is being recommended to use CSS. So it's a good idea to start using CSS in all the HTML pages to make them compatible with future browsers.

Platform Independence − The Script offer consistent platform independence and can support latest browsers as well.

• What are the disadvantages of CSS?
Ans. Confusion due to many CSS levels. Beginners are more vulnerable to this issue.
Cross-Browser Issues. Different browsers work differently.
Security Issues. Security is important in today's world driven by technology and data.
Extra Work for Developers.

• What is the difference between CSS2 and CSS3?
Ans. The biggest difference between CSS2 and CSS3 is that CSS3 is now split into different modules. Since each module makes its way through the W3C individually, there's a wider range of browser support. Make sure you test your CSS3 pages in as many browsers and operating systems as possible to ensure compatibility.

• Name a few CSS style components.
Ans. There are two type of  components. They are as  follows :
 Properties: These are human-readable identifiers that indicate which stylistic features you want to modify. For example, font-size , width , background-color .
Values: Each property is assigned a value. This value indicates how to style the property.

• What do you understand by CSS opacity?
Ans. The opacity CSS property sets the opacity of an element. Opacity is the degree to which content behind an element is hidden, and is the opposite of transparency.

• How can the background color of an element be changed?
Ans. To add background color in HTML, use the CSS background-color property. Set it to the color name or code you want and place it inside a style attribute. Then add this style attribute to an HTML element, like a table, heading, div, or span tag.

• How can image repetition of the backup be controlled?
Ans. To control the repetition of an image in the background, use the background-repeat property. You can use no-repeat value for the background-repeat property if you do not want to repeat an image, in this case, the image will display only once.

• What is the use of the background-position property?
Ans. The background-position property sets the starting position of a background image. Tip: By default, a background-image is placed at the top-left corner of an element, and repeated both vertically and horizontally.

• Which property controls the image scroll in the background?
Ans. background-attachment property
The background-attachment property sets whether a background image scrolls with the rest of the page, or is fixed.

• Why should background and color be used as separate properties?
Ans. Why background and color are the separate properties if they should always be set together? There are two reasons behind this: It enhances the legibility of style sheets. The background property is a complex property in CSS, and if it is combined with color, the complexity will further increase. 

• How to center block elements using CSS1?
Ans. There are two ways of centering block level elements:

1. By setting the properties margin-left and margin-right to auto and width to some explicit value:

BODY {width: 30em; background: cyan;}
P {width: 22em; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto}

In this case, the left and right margins will each be four ems wide, since they equally split up the eight ems left over from (30em - 22em). Note that it was not necessary to set an explicit width for the BODY element; it was done here to keep the math clean.

Another example:

TABLE {margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto; width: 400px;}
In most legacy browsers, a table's width is by default determined by its content. In CSS-conformant browsers, the complete width of any element (including tables) defaults to the full width of its parent element's content area. As browser becaome more conformant, authors will need to be aware of the potential impact on their designs.

• How to maintain the CSS specifications?
Ans. The CSS Specification prior to CSS3 was a single Specification, CSS3 on the other hand is divided into Modules which are Independent Specifications that can be worked on by different author(s) at different paces, that's why we have Selector Level 3 Specification, CSS Color 4, CSS Backgrounds and so on. Some of these modules are revisions of CSS2.1, and some are newly created, but all fall under the banner of CSS3.

The Specification should be your guide if you need to understand how a specific property or feature works behind the scene and how it works with other CSS properties. And if you are comfortable reading algorithms you won't get bored reading the CSS Specification.

The Specifications can be accessed online along with the author(s) name and when its was last updated.

Take your time and familiarize yourself with the Specification because we will be making heavy use of it in the topic: CSS Selectors.

• What are the ways to integrate CSS as a web page?
Ans. CSS can be added to HTML documents in 3 ways: Inline - by using the style attribute inside HTML elements. Internal - by using a <style> element in the <head> section. External - by using a <link> element to link to an external CSS file.

• What is embedded style sheets?
Ans. Embedded Stylesheet: It allows you to define styles for a particular HTML document as a whole in one place. This is done by embedding the <style></style> tags containing the CSS properties in the head of your document.

• What are the external style sheets?
Ans. An external style sheet is a separate CSS file that can be accessed by creating a link within the head section of the webpage. Multiple webpages can use the same link to access the stylesheet. The link to an external style sheet is placed within the head section of the page.

• What are the advantages and disadvantages of using external style sheets?
Ans. External style sheets have the following advantages over internal and inline styles:
one change to the style sheet will change all linked pages.
you can create classes of styles that can then be used on many different HTML elements.
consistent look and feel across multiple web pages.

Disadvantages of External CSS:

Your pages may not be rendered correctly until the external CSS is loaded. Uploading or linking to multiple CSS files can increase your site's download time.

• What is the meaning of the CSS selector?
Ans. A CSS selector is the first part of a CSS Rule. It is a pattern of elements and other terms that tell the browser which HTML elements should be selected to have the CSS property values inside the rule applied to them.

• What are the media types allowed by CSS?
Ans. continuous or paged.
visual, audio, speech, or tactile.
grid (for character grid devices), or bitmap.
interactive (for devices that allow user interaction), or static (for those that do not).
all (includes all media types)

• What is the rule set?
Ans. Each (valid) declaration block is preceded by one or more comma-separated selectors, which are conditions selecting some elements of the page. A selector group and an associated declarations block, together, are called a ruleset, or often a rule.