Module (Bootstrap Basic & Advanced) – 6


• What are the advantages of Bootstrap?
Ans. Easy initiation. Coding is a hurricane task for a person who is unbeknownst to web development. ...
Responsiveness. ...
Highly customizable. ...
Extremely user-centric. ...
Top-notch support. ...
Cross-browser compatibility. ...
JavaScript plugins to your rescue. ...
Far-reaching popularity. 

• What is a Bootstrap Container, and how does it work?
Ans. Containers are the most basic layout element in Bootstrap and are required when using our default grid system. Containers are used to contain, pad, and (sometimes) center the content within them. While containers can be nested, most layouts do not require a nested container.

• What are the default Bootstrap text settings?
Ans. Bootstrap 4 uses a default font-size of 16px, and its line-height is 1.5. The default font-family is "Helvetica Neue", Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif. In addition, all <p> elements have margin-top: 0 and margin-bottom: 1rem (16px by default).

• What do you know about the Bootstrap Grid System?
Ans. Bootstrap's grid system uses a series of containers, rows, and columns to layout and align content. It's built with flexbox and is fully responsive. Below is an example and an in-depth look at how the grid comes together.

• What is the difference between Bootstrap 4 and Bootstrap 5
Ans. Enhanced Grid System
The grid system is retained in Bootstrap 5. However, an extra grid tier xxl has been introduced to minimize the effort in making the pages responsive on higher resolution displays.

Columns don't have a default relative position in Bootstrap 5.

Classes have been added to address vertical spacing.

Enhanced Form Elements
The form elements in Bootstrap 4 have defaulted to the browser-provided view. However, in Bootstrap 5, the form elements have a custom design that enables them to have a consistent look and feel in all browsers.

The new form controls are based on completely semantic, standard form controls. This helps developers to avoid adding extra markups for form controls.

Utilities API
Unlike Bootstrap 4, Bootstrap 5 enables the developers to modify and create their own utilities.

You can simply use sass to create your own utilities.

• What is a Button Group, and what is the class for a basic Button Group?
Ans. “Button Groups” in Bootstrap is a class of name “btn-group” which is used to create series of buttons in groups (without spaces) vertically or horizontally. This is the basic syntax of the button group class where each button has its own class of “btn”.

• How can you use Bootstrap to make thumbnails?
Ans. Step 1: Include Bootstrap and jQuery CDN into the <head> tag before all other stylesheets to load our CSS. Step 2: Add <div> tag in the HTML body with class row. In that <div> create four div sections to create four images. Step 3: Add “col-sm-6” and “col-md-3” to four div sections which creates webpage responsive.

• In Bootstrap 4, what is flexbox?
Ans. Flexbox. The biggest difference between Bootstrap 3 and Bootstrap 4 is that Bootstrap 4 now uses flexbox, instead of floats, to handle the layout. The Flexible Box Layout Module, makes it easier to design flexible responsive layout structure without using float or positioning.

• How can one create an alert in Bootstrap?
Ans. Bootstrap Alerts. Bootstrap Alerts are used to provide an easy way to create predefined alert messages. Alert adds a style to your messages to make it more appealing to the users. There are four classes that are used within <div> element for alerts.

• What is a bootstrap card and how would you create one?
Ans. A card is a flexible and extensible content container. It includes options for headers and footers, a wide variety of content, contextual background colors, and powerful display options. If you're familiar with Bootstrap 3, cards replace our old panels, wells, and thumbnails.
